
## What is typecasting?

**Widening (automatically)** - conversion of a smaller data type to a larger data type size.

`byte -> short -> char -> int -> long -> float -> double`

**Narrowing (manually)** - converting a larger type to a smaller size type

`double -> float -> long -> int -> char -> short -> byte`

## What are the default values and sizes of primitive data types?


**int** 0

**char**  ‘u0000’

**byte** 0

**short** 0

**long** 0L

**float** 0.0f

**double** 0.0d

**boolean**  false
## What are non-primitive data types?

 String, arrays, and structures.
## Is there any default value for local variables?

**Ans:**  No, local variables are not initialized by any default values.

### Q35. What is the role of the unary operator in Java?


    `class UnaryExample{`
    
    `public static void main(String args[]){`
    
    `int x=15;`
    
    `System.out.println(x++);``//15 (16)`
    
    `System.out.println(++x);``//17`
    
    `System.out.println(x--);``//12 (16)`
    
    `System.out.println(--x);``//15`
    
    `}}`

## What is a ternary operator?

**Ans:** Ternary operator in Java is used to replace if-else statement. The representation or the syntax for the ternary operator is given as:

`variable= (expression) ? expression` `true` `: expression` `false`

## What are the advantages of OOPs?

**Ans:**  The following are the advantages of OOPs, and they are:

-   OOPs provides data hiding
-   OOPs makes development and maintenance easier when compared to a procedural programming language.
-   OOPs has the ability to stimulate real-world entities more effectively.
##  Can the constructor be overloaded?

 Yes, It is possible to overload a constructor by changing the number of arguments for each constructor in a particular program or it is possible to overload a constructor by changing the parameter data types.
##  Why is the main method in Java is static?

**Ans:**  The main reason is that the object is not required to call for static method so, if we declare the main method as non-static we need to create an object first and then call main() method. In order to save memory, we declare the main method as static in Java.


##  What happens if we remove static modifier from the signature of the main() method?

**Ans:**  The program will be compiled, **but at runtime, it throws NoSuchMethodError error.**

##  Q106. Can we overload main() method in Java?

**Ans:** Yes, we can overload the main() method in Java by using method overloading but, JVM only calls the main() method that receives string array as arguments only.

## What is method overriding in Java?

**Ans:**  If the subclass in the program has the same method as declared in superclass then it is known as method overriding.




## What is an infinite Loop? How infinite loop is declared?

Ans: An infinite loop runs without any condition and runs infinitely. 

    for (;;)
    {
        // Statements to execute
    
        // Add any loop breaking logic
    }

## Can we declare a class as Abstract without having any abstract method?

Ans: Yes we can create an abstract class by using abstract keyword before class name even if it doesn't have any abstract method. However, if a class has even one abstract method, it must be declared as abstract otherwise it will give an error.


## How can we make copy of a java object?

Ans: We can use the concept of cloning to create copy of an object. Using clone, we create copies with the actual state of an object.


 

## What's the benefit of using inheritance?

Ans: Key benefit of using inheritance is reusability of code as inheritance enables sub-classes to reuse the code of its super class. 

## Give an example of use of Pointers in Java class.

Ans: There are no pointers in Java. So we can't use concept of pointers in Java.

##  Can we use goto in Java to go to a particular line?

Ans: In Java, there is not goto keyword and java doesn't support this feature of going to a particular labeled line.

## Can a dead thread be started again?

Ans: In java, a thread which is in dead state can't be started again. There is no way to restart a dead thread.

## How are destructors defined in Java?

Ans: In Java, there are no destructors defined in the class as there is no need to do so. Java has its own garbage collection mechanism which does the job automatically by destroying the objects when no longer referenced.

## Can we have static methods in an Interface?

Ans: Static methods can't be overridden in any class while any methods in an interface are by default abstract and are supposed to be implemented in the classes being implementing the interface. So it makes no sense to have static methods in an interface in Java.

## In a class implementing an interface, can we change the value of any variable defined in the interface?

Ans: No, we can't change the value of any variable of an interface in the implementing class as **all variables defined in the interface are by default public, static and Final and final variables are like constants which can't be changed later.**

## Is it correct to say that due to garbage collection feature in Java, a java program never goes out of memory?

Ans: Even though automatic garbage collection is provided by Java, it doesn't ensure that a Java program will not go out of memory as there is a possibility that creation of Java objects is being done at a faster pace compared to garbage collection resulting in filling of all the available memory resources.

So, garbage collection helps in reducing the chances of a program going out of memory but it doesn't ensure that.

## I want to re-reach and use an object once it has been garbage collected. How it's possible?

Ans: Once an object has been destroyed by garbage collector, it no longer exists on the heap and it can't be accessed again. There is no way to reference it again.

## In Java thread programming, which method is a must implementation for all threads?

Ans: Run() is a method of Runnable interface that must be implemented by all threads.

## Is there a way to increase the size of an array after its declaration?

Ans: Arrays are static and once we have specified its size, we can't change it. 


## I want to persist data of objects for later use. What's the best approach to do so?

Ans: The best way to persist data for future use is to use the concept of serialization.
 

## Can we cast any other type to Boolean Type with type casting?

Ans: No, we can neither cast any other primitive type to Boolean data type nor can cast Boolean data type to any other primitive data type.

## What's the order of call of constructors in inheritiance?

Ans: In case of inheritance, when a new object of a derived class is created, first the constructor of the super class is invoked and then the constructor of the derived class is invoked.

## What is Marker interface?
    
A marker interface is an empty interface without any method **but used to force some functionality in implementing classes by Java.** Some of the well known marker interfaces are Serializable and Cloneable.
    
## What are Wrapper classes?
    
Java wrapper classes are the Object representation of eight primitive types in java. **All the wrapper classes in java are immutable and final.** Java 5 autoboxing and unboxing allows easy conversion between primitive types and their corresponding wrapper classes.
    
## What is Enum in Java?

    
  Enum was introduced in Java 1.5 as a new type whose fields consists of fixed set of constants. For example, in Java we can create Direction as enum with fixed fields as EAST, WEST, NORTH, SOUTH.
  
 **Enum constants are implicitly static and final.** 
## What is Java Annotations?

Java Annotations provide information about the code and they have no direct effect on the code they annotate. Annotations are introduced in Java 5. 

## How to run a JAR file through command prompt?

We can run a jar file using java command but it requires Main-Class entry in jar manifest file. Main-Class is the entry point of the jar and used by java command to execute the class.
## What is instanceof keyword?

We can use instanceof keyword to check if an object belongs to a class or not. We should avoid it’s usage as much as possible. Sample usage is:

```

public static void main(String args[]){
  Object str = new String("abc");
    
  if(str instanceof String){
    System.out.println("String value:"+str);
  }
    
  if(str instanceof Integer){
    System.out.println("Integer value:"+str);
  }
}

```

Since str is of type String at runtime, first if statement evaluates to the true and second one to false.

## How does Autoboxing of Integer work in Java?

hint: By using the `valueOf()` method in Java.

## Difference between** `**Comparator**` **and** `**Comparable**` **in Java?

  
hint: `Comparator` defines custom ordering while `Comparable` defines the natural order of objects, e.g. the alphabetic order for `String`. 


## 102) What is Runtime Polymorphism?



    class Bike{  
      void run(){System.out.println("running");}  
    }  
    class Splendor extends Bike{  
      void run(){System.out.println("running safely with 60km");}  
      public static void main(String args[]){  
        Bike b = new Splendor();//upcasting  
        b.run();  
      }  
    }  


Output:


    running safely with 60km.

In this process, an overridden method is called through the reference variable of a superclass. The determination of the method to be called is based on the object being referred to by the reference variable.



## 103) Can you achieve Runtime Polymorphism by data members?


    class Bike{  
     int speedlimit=90;  
    }  
    class Honda3 extends Bike{  
     int speedlimit=150;  
     public static void main(String args[]){  
      Bike obj=new Honda3();  
      System.out.println(obj.speedlimit);//90  
       }  


Output:

90


## 104) What is the difference between static binding and dynamic binding?


**Static Binding**

    class Dog{  
     private void eat(){System.out.println("dog is eating...");}  
      
     public static void main(String args[]){  
      Dog d1=new Dog();  
      d1.eat();  
     }  
    } 

 
**Dynamic Binding**

    class Animal{  
     void eat(){System.out.println("animal is eating...");}  
    }  
      
    class Dog extends Animal{  
     void eat(){System.out.println("dog is eating...");}  
      
     public static void main(String args[]){  
      Animal a=new Dog();  
      a.eat();  
     }  
    }  



## 105) What is the output of the following Java program?

    class BaseTest   
    {  
      void print()  
      {  
        System.out.println("BaseTest:print() called");  
      }  
    }  
    public class Test extends BaseTest   
    {  
      void print()   
      {  
        System.out.println("Test:print() called");  
      }  
      public static void main (String args[])  
      {  
        BaseTest b = new Test();  
        b.print();  
      }  
    }  

Output

 

     Test:print() called


## 106) What is Java instanceOf operator?

The instanceof in Java is also known as type comparison operator because it **compares the instance with type**. It returns either true or false. 

    class Simple1{  
     public static void main(String args[]){  
     Simple1 s=new Simple1();  
     System.out.println(s instanceof Simple1);//true  
     }  
    }  


Output

    true


## 107) What is the abstraction?

Abstraction is a process of hiding the implementation details and showing only functionality to the user. 

In Java, there are two ways to achieve the abstraction.

Abstract Class
Interface


## 109) What is the abstract class?


 It cannot be instantiated. It can have abstract methods, non-abstract methods, constructors, and static methods. It can also have the final methods which will force the subclass not to change the body of the method. 
 

    abstract class Bike{  
      abstract void run();  
    }  
    class Honda4 extends Bike{  
    void run(){System.out.println("running safely");}  
    public static void main(String args[]){  
     Bike obj = new Honda4();  
     obj.run();  
    }  
    }  


Output

    running safely


## 110) Can there be an abstract method without an abstract class?

No, if there is an abstract method in a class, that class must be abstract.

## 111) Is the following program written correctly? If yes then what will be the output of the program?

    abstract class Calculate  
    {  
        abstract int multiply(int a, int b);  
    }  
       
    public class Main  
    {  
        public static void main(String[] args)  
        {  
            int result = new Calculate()  
            {      
                @Override  
                int multiply(int a, int b)  
                {  
                    return a*b;  
                }  
            }.multiply(12,32);  
            System.out.println("result = "+result);  
        }  
    }  

Yes, the program is written correctly. The Main class provides the definition of abstract method multiply declared in abstract class Calculation. The output of the program will be:

Output

    384

## 112) Can you use abstract and final both with a method?

No, because we need to override the abstract method to provide its implementation, whereas we can't override the final method.

## 113) Is it possible to instantiate the abstract class?

No, the abstract class can never be instantiated even if it contains a constructor and all of its methods are implemented.

## 114) What is the interface?

The interface is a blueprint for a class that has static constants and abstract methods. 


## 115) Can you declare an interface method static?

No, because methods of an interface are abstract by default, and **we can not use static and abstract together.**

## 116) Can the Interface be final?

No, because an interface **needs to be implemented by the other class** and if it is final, it can't be implemented by any class.

## 117) What is a marker interface?

**A Marker interface can be defined as the interface which has no data member and member functions.** For example, Serializable, Cloneable are marker interfaces.

    public interface Serializable{    
    }    

## 118) What are the differences between abstract class and interface?


An abstract class can have a method body (non-abstract methods).  The interface has only abstract methods.
An abstract class can have instance variables.  An interface cannot have instance variables.
An abstract class can have the constructor. The interface cannot have the constructor.
An abstract class can have static methods.  The interface cannot have static methods.
You can extend one abstract class.  You can implement multiple interfaces.
The abstract class can provide the implementation of the interface. The Interface can't provide the implementation of the abstract class.
The abstract keyword is used to declare an abstract class.  The interface keyword is used to declare an interface.
An abstract class can extend another Java class and implement multiple Java interfaces. An interface can extend another Java interface only.
An abstract class can be extended using keyword extends An interface class can be implemented using keyword implements

## 119) Can we define private and protected modifiers for the members in interfaces?

No, they are implicitly public.

## 120) When can an object reference be cast to an interface reference?

An object reference can be cast to an interface reference **when the object implements the referenced interface.**

## 121) How to make a read-only class in Java?

A class can be made read-only by **making all of the fields private.** 

      //A Java class which has only getter methods.    
    public class Student{    
    //private data member    
    private String college="AKG";    
    //getter method for college    
    public String getCollege(){    
    return college;    
    }    
    }    


## 124) What is the package?

A package is a group of similar **type of classes, interfaces, and sub-packages.** It provides access protection and removes naming collision. 


    package mypack;  
    public class Simple{  
     public static void main(String args[]){  
        System.out.println("Welcome to package");  
       }  
    } 



## 128) Do I need to import java.lang package any time? Why?

No. It is by default loaded internally by the JVM.

## 129) Can I import same package/class twice? Will the JVM load the package twice at runtime?

One can import the same package or the same class multiple times. Neither compiler nor JVM complains about it. However, the JVM will internally load the class only once no matter how many times you import the same class.





## 133) Explain the hierarchy of Java Exception classes?

The java.lang.Throwable class is the root class of Java Exception hierarchy which is inherited by two subclasses: 



## 135) What is the base class for Error and Exception?

The Throwable class is the base class for Error and Exception.

## 136) Is it necessary that each try block must be followed by a catch block?

It is not necessary that each try block must be followed by a catch block. It should be followed by either a catch block OR a finally block. So whatever exceptions are likely to be thrown should be declared in the throws clause of the method. Consider the following example.

    public class Main{  
         public static void main(String []args){  
            try{  
                int a = 1;   
                System.out.println(a/0);  
            }  
            finally  
            {  
                System.out.println("rest of the code...");  
            }  
         }  
    }  
          

Output:

Exception in thread main java.lang.ArithmeticException:/ by zero
rest of the code...

## 137) What is the output of the following Java program?

    public class ExceptionHandlingExample {  
    public static void main(String args[])  
    {  
        try  
        {  
            int a = 1/0;  
            System.out.println("a = "+a);  
        }  
        catch(Exception e){System.out.println(e);}  
        catch(ArithmeticException ex){System.out.println(ex);}    
    }  
    }  

Output

ExceptionHandlingExample.java:10: error: exception ArithmeticException has already been caught
  catch(ArithmeticException ex){System.out.println(ex);}  
  ^
1 error
Explanation

ArithmaticException is the subclass of Exception. Therefore, it can not be used after Exception. Since Exception is the base class for all the exceptions, therefore, it must be used at last to handle the exception. No class can be used after this.

## 138) What is finally block?

The "finally" block is used to execute the important code of the program. It is executed whether an exception is handled or not. **In other words, we can say that finally block is the block which is always executed.**  The finally block is mainly used to place the cleanup code such as closing a file or closing a connection. 

## 139) Can finally block be used without a catch?

Yes, According to the definition of finally block, it must be followed by a try or catch block, therefore, we can use try block instead of catch. More details.

## 140) Is there any case when finally will not be executed?

Finally block will not be executed if program exits(either by calling System.exit() or by causing a fatal error that causes the process to abort).More details.


## 142) What is the output of the following Java program?

 

     public class Main{  
         public static void main(String []args){  
            try  
            {  
                throw 90;   
            }  
            catch(int e){  
                System.out.println("Caught the exception "+e);  
            }  
                  
        }  
    }  

Output

Main.java:6: error: incompatible types: int cannot be converted to Throwable
            throw 90; 
            ^
Main.java:8: error: unexpected type
        catch(int e){
              ^
  required: class
  found:    int
2 errors
Explanation

In Java, the throwable objects can only be thrown. If we try to throw an integer object, The compiler will show an error since we can not throw basic data type from a block of code.

## 143) What is the output of the following Java program?

    class Calculation extends Exception  
    {  
        public Calculation()   
        {  
            System.out.println("Calculation class is instantiated");  
        }  
        public void add(int a, int b)  
        {  
            System.out.println("The sum is "+(a+b));  
        }  
    }  
    public class Main{  
         public static void main(String []args){  
            try  
            {  
                throw new Calculation();   
            }  
            catch(Calculation c){  
                c.add(10,20);  
            }  
        }  
    }   

Output

Calculation class is instantiated
The sum is 30
Explanation

The object of Calculation is thrown from the try block which is caught in the catch block. The add() of Calculation class is called with the integer values 10 and 20 by using the object of this class. Therefore there sum 30 is printed. The object of the Main class can only be thrown in the case when the type of the object is throwable. To do so, we need to extend the throwable class.

## 144) Can an exception be rethrown?

Yes

## 199) What is serialization?

Serialization in Java is a mechanism of writing the state of an object into a byte stream. 


## 200) How can you make a class serializable in Java?

A class can become serializable by implementing the Serializable interface.


## 202) Can a Serialized object be transferred via network?

Yes

## 203) What is Deserialization?

Deserialization is the process of reconstructing the object from the serialized state. 

    import java.io.*;  
    class Depersist{  
     public static void main(String args[])throws Exception{  
        
      ObjectInputStream in=new ObjectInputStream(new FileInputStream("f.txt"));  
      Student s=(Student)in.readObject();  
      System.out.println(s.id+" "+s.name);  
      
      in.close();  
     }  
    }  

211 ravi

## 204) What is the transient keyword?

If you define any data member as transient, it will not be serialized. By determining transient keyword, the value of variable need not persist when it is restored. More details.



.

## 208) What is Socket?

A socket is simply an endpoint for communications between the machines. **It provides the connection mechanism to connect the two computers using TCP. The Socket class can be used to create a socket.**


## 210) Write a program in Java to establish a connection between client and server?

Consider the following program where the connection between the client and server is established.

File: MyServer.java

    import java.io.*;  
    import java.net.*;  
    public class MyServer {  
    public static void main(String[] args){  
    try{  
    ServerSocket ss=new ServerSocket(6666);  
    Socket s=ss.accept();//establishes connection   
    DataInputStream dis=new DataInputStream(s.getInputStream());  
    String  str=(String)dis.readUTF();  
    System.out.println("message= "+str);  
    ss.close();  
    }catch(Exception e){System.out.println(e);}  
    }  
    }  

File: MyClient.java

    import java.io.*;  
    import java.net.*;  
    public class MyClient {  
    public static void main(String[] args) {  
    try{    
    Socket s=new Socket("localhost",6666);  
    DataOutputStream dout=new DataOutputStream(s.getOutputStream());  
    dout.writeUTF("Hello Server");  
    dout.flush();  
    dout.close();  
    s.close();  
    }catch(Exception e){System.out.println(e);}  
    }  
    }  



## 213) What is the purpose of using java.lang.Class class?



Provides methods to get the metadata of a class at runtime.
Provides methods to examine and change the runtime behavior of a class.

## 214) What are the ways to instantiate the Class class?

There are three ways to instantiate the Class class.

forName() method of Class class: The forName() method is used to load the class dynamically.

getClass() method of Object class: It returns the instance of Class class.

the .class syntax: If a type is available, but there is no instance then it is possible to obtain a Class by appending ".class" to the name of the type. It can be used for primitive data type also.

## 215) What is the output of the following Java program?

    class Simple{    
     public Simple()  
     {  
       System.out.println("Constructor of Simple class is invoked");  
     }  
     void message(){System.out.println("Hello Java");}    
    }    
        
    class Test1{    
     public static void main(String args[]){    
      try{    
      Class c=Class.forName("Simple");    
      Simple s=(Simple)c.newInstance();    
      s.message();    
      }catch(Exception e){System.out.println(e);}    
     }    
    }

    
Output

    Constructor of Simple class is invoked
    Hello Java

Explanation

The newInstance() method of the Class class is used to invoke the constructor at runtime. In this program, the instance of the Simple class is created.



## 220) What is the output of the below Java program?

    public class Test1  
    {  
      public static void main(String[] args) {  
      Integer i = new Integer(201);  
      Integer j = new Integer(201);  
      if(i == j)  
      {  
        System.out.println("hello");  
      }  
      else   
      {  
        System.out.println("bye");  
      }  
      }  
    }  

Output

    bye

Explanation

The Integer class caches integer values from -127 to 127. Therefore, the Integer objects can only be created in the range -128 to 127. **The operator == will not work for the value greater than 127; thus bye is printed.**





## 225) What is the purpose of the System class?

The purpose of the System class is to provide access to system resources such as standard input and output. 



## 227) What is a singleton class?

Singleton class is the class which can not be instantiated more than once. 

    class Singleton{  
        private static Singleton single_instance = null;  
        int i;  
         private Singleton ()  
         {  
             i=90;  
         }  
         public static Singleton getInstance()  
         {  
             if(single_instance == null)  
             {  
                 single_instance = new Singleton();  
             }  
             return single_instance;  
         }  
    }  
    public class Main   
    {  
        public static void main (String args[])  
        {  
            Singleton first = Singleton.getInstance();  
            System.out.println("First instance integer value:"+first.i);  
            first.i=first.i+90;  
            Singleton second = Singleton.getInstance();  
            System.out.println("Second instance integer value:"+second.i);  
        }  
    }  
      

## 228) Write a Java program that prints all the values given at command-line.

Program

    class A{  
    public static void main(String args[]){  
      
    for(int i=0;i<args.length;i++)  
    System.out.println(args[i]);  
      
    }  
    }

  
compile by > javac A.java  
run by > java A sonoo jaiswal 1 3 abc  
Output

    sonoo
    jaiswal
    1
    3
    abc   

   



## 237) What is Locale?

A Locale object represents a specific geographical, political, or cultural region. This object can be used to get the locale-specific information such as country name, language, variant, etc.

    import java.util.*;  
    public class LocaleExample {  
    public static void main(String[] args) {  
    Locale locale=Locale.getDefault();  
    //Locale locale=new Locale("fr","fr");//for the specific locale  
      
    System.out.println(locale.getDisplayCountry());  
    System.out.println(locale.getDisplayLanguage());  
    System.out.println(locale.getDisplayName());  
    System.out.println(locale.getISO3Country());  
    System.out.println(locale.getISO3Language());  
    System.out.println(locale.getLanguage());  
    System.out.println(locale.getCountry());  
          
    }  
    }  

Output:

    United States
    English
    English (United States)
    USA
    eng
    en
    US


## 242) What is RMI?

The RMI (Remote Method Invocation) is an API that provides a mechanism to create the distributed application in java. 

## 145) Can subclass overriding method declare an exception if parent class method doesn't throw an exception?

Yes but only unchecked exception not checked.



## 147) What is the output of the following Java program?

    public class Main   
    {  
        void a()  
        {  
            try{  
            System.out.println("a(): Main called");  
            b();  
            }catch(Exception e)  
            {  
                System.out.println("Exception is caught");  
            }  
        }  
        void b() throws Exception  
        {  
         try{  
             System.out.println("b(): Main called");  
             c();  
         }catch(Exception e){  
             throw new Exception();  
         }  
         finally   
         {  
             System.out.println("finally block is called");  
         }  
        }  
        void c() throws Exception   
        {  
            throw new Exception();  
        }  
      
        public static void main (String args[])  
        {  
            Main m = new Main();  
            m.a();  
        }  
    }  

Output

    a(): Main called
    b(): Main called
    finally block is called
    Exception is caught

Explanation

In the main method, a() of Main is called which prints a message and call b(). The method b() prints some message and then call c(). The method c() throws an exception which is handled by the catch block of method b. However, It propagates this exception by using throw Exception() to be handled by the method a(). As we know, finally block is always executed therefore the finally block in the method b() is executed first and prints a message. At last, the exception is handled by the catch block of the method a().

## 148) What is the output of the following Java program?

    public class Calculation   
    {  
        int a;   
        public Calculation(int a)  
        {  
            this.a = a;  
        }  
        public int add()  
        {  
            a = a+10;   
            try   
            {  
                a = a+10;   
                try   
                {  
                    a = a*10;   
                    throw new Exception();   
                }catch(Exception e){  
                    a = a - 10;  
                }  
            }catch(Exception e)  
            {  
                a = a - 10;   
            }  
            return a;  
        }  
          
        public static void main (String args[])  
        {  
            Calculation c = new Calculation(10);  
            int result = c.add();  
            System.out.println("result = "+result);  
        }  
    }  

Output

    result = 290

**Explanation**

The second try block throws the exception which is caught by the catch block associated with this try block. The catch block again alters the value of a by decrementing it by 10 to make it 290. 



## 169) What is a nested class?

The nested class can be defined as the class which is defined inside another class or interface. 

    class Java_Outer_class{    
     //code    
     class Java_Nested_class{    
      //code    
     }    
    }

    
      
There are two types of nested classes, static nested class, and non-static nested class. The non-static nested class can also be called as inner-class


## 170) What are the disadvantages of using inner classes?

There are the following main disadvantages of using inner classes.

Inner classes increase the total number of classes used by the developer and therefore increases the workload of JVM since it has to perform some routine operations for those extra classes which result in slower performance.


## 171) What are the types of inner classes (non-static nested class) used in Java?


Member Inner Class  A class created within class and outside method.
Anonymous Inner Class A class created for implementing an interface or extending class. Its name is decided by the java compiler.
Local Inner Class A class created within the method.



## 174) How many class files are created on compiling the OuterClass in the following program?

    public class Person {  
    String name, age, address;  
    class Employee{  
      float salary=10000;  
    }  
    class BusinessMen{  
      final String gstin="£4433drt3$";   
    }  
    public static void main (String args[])  
    {  
      Person p = new Person();  
    }  
    }  

3 class-files will be created named as Person.class, Person$BusinessMen.class, and Person$Employee.class.
## 176) What is the nested interface?

An Interface that is declared inside the interface or class is known as the nested interface. 

    interface interface_name{    
     ...    
     interface nested_interface_name{    
      ...    
     }    
    }   

  
      



## 180) What is gc()?

The gc() method is used to invoke the garbage collector for cleanup processing. This method is found in System and Runtime classes. 

    public class TestGarbage1{  
     public void finalize(){System.out.println("object is garbage collected");}  
     public static void main(String args[]){  
      TestGarbage1 s1=new TestGarbage1();  
      TestGarbage1 s2=new TestGarbage1();  
      s1=null;  
      s2=null;  
      System.gc();  
     }  
    }  




## 182) How can an object be unreferenced?

There are many ways:

By nulling the reference
By assigning a reference to another
By anonymous object etc.
Java Garbage Collection Scenario
1) By nulling a reference:
Employee e=new Employee();  
e=null;  
2) By assigning a reference to another:
Employee e1=new Employee();  
Employee e2=new Employee();  
e1=e2;//now the first object referred by e1 is available for garbage collection  
3) By anonymous object:
new Employee();  

## 183) What is the purpose of the finalize() method?

The finalize() method is invoked just before the object is garbage collected. It is used to perform cleanup processing. 

    public class FinalizeTest {  
        int j=12;  
        void add()  
        {  
            j=j+12;  
            System.out.println("J="+j);  
        }  
        public void finalize()  
        {  
            System.out.println("Object is garbage collected");  
        }  
        public static void main(String[] args) {  
            new FinalizeTest().add();  
            System.gc();  
            new FinalizeTest().add();  
        }  
    }  
      

## 184) Can an unreferenced object be referenced again?

Yes,





## 187) What is the purpose of the Runtime class?

Java Runtime class is used to interact with a java runtime environment. Java Runtime class provides methods to execute a process, invoke GC, get total and free memory, etc. There is only one instance of java.lang.Runtime class is available for one java application. **The Runtime.getRuntime() method returns the singleton instance of Runtime class.**

## 188) How will you invoke any external process in Java?

By Runtime.getRuntime().exec(?) method. Consider the following example.

    public class Runtime1{  
     public static void main(String args[])throws Exception{  
      Runtime.getRuntime().exec("notepad");//will open a new notepad  
     }  
    }  



## 190) What do you understand by an IO stream?

The stream is a sequence of data that flows from source to destination. It is composed of bytes. In Java, three streams are created for us automatically.

System.out: standard output stream
System.in: standard input stream
System.err: standard error stream

## 191) What is the difference between the Reader/Writer class hierarchy and the InputStream/OutputStream class hierarchy?

The Reader/Writer class hierarchy is character-oriented, and the InputStream/OutputStream class hierarchy is byte-oriented. The ByteStream classes are used to perform input-output of 8-bit bytes whereas the CharacterStream classes are used to perform the input/output for the 16-bit Unicode system. There are many classes in the ByteStream class hierarchy, but the most frequently used classes are FileInputStream and FileOutputStream. The most frequently used classes CharacterStream class hierarchy is FileReader and FileWriter.

## 192) What are the super most classes for all the streams?

All the stream classes can be divided into two types of classes that are ByteStream classes and CharacterStream Classes. The ByteStream classes are further divided into InputStream classes and OutputStream classes. CharacterStream classes are also divided into Reader classes and Writer classes. 
**The SuperMost classes for all the InputStream classes is java.io.InputStream and for all the output stream classes is java.io.OutPutStream. Similarly, for all the reader classes, the super-most class is java.io.Reader, and for all the writer classes, it is java.io.Writer.**



## 198) In Java, How many ways you can take input from the console?

In Java, there are three ways by using which, we can take input from the console.

**Using BufferedReader class:** 

    import java.io.BufferedReader;   
    import java.io.IOException;   
    import java.io.InputStreamReader;   
    public class Person   
    {   
        public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException    
        {   
          System.out.println("Enter the name of the person");  
            BufferedReader reader = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));   
            String name = reader.readLine();   
            System.out.println(name);           
        }   
    }   

**Using Scanner class:** 

    import java.util.*;    
    public class ScannerClassExample2 {      
          public static void main(String args[]){                         
              String str = "Hello/This is JavaTpoint/My name is Abhishek.";    
              //Create scanner with the specified String Object    
              Scanner scanner = new Scanner(str);    
              System.out.println("Boolean Result: "+scanner.hasNextBoolean());              
              //Change the delimiter of this scanner    
              scanner.useDelimiter("/");    
              //Printing the tokenized Strings    
              System.out.println("---Tokenizes String---");     
            while(scanner.hasNext()){    
                System.out.println(scanner.next());    
            }    
              //Display the new delimiter    
              System.out.println("Delimiter used: " +scanner.delimiter());              
              scanner.close();    
              }      
    } 

   
    
**Using Console class:** 

    import java.io.Console;    
    class ReadStringTest{      
    public static void main(String args[]){      
    Console c=System.console();      
    System.out.println("Enter your name: ");      
    String n=c.readLine();      
    System.out.println("Welcome "+n);      
    }      
    }    

