

## Starting a PHP Session

A PHP session is easily started by making a call to the session_start() function.

This function first checks if a session is already started and if none is started
then it starts one. It is recommended to put the call to session_start() at the
beginning of the page.

    session_start();
    
    if( isset( $_SESSION['counter'] ) ) {
    $_SESSION['counter'] += 1;
    }else {
    $_SESSION['counter'] = 1;
    }

## Destroying a PHP Session

A PHP session can be destroyed by session_destroy() function.
If you want to destroy a single session variable then you can use unset() function to unset a session variable.

    unset($_SESSION['counter']);
    session_destroy();

## Browser Redirection

The PHP header() function supplies raw HTTP headers to the browser and can be used to redirect it to another location. The redirection script should be at the very top of the page to prevent any other part of the page from loading.

    if( $_POST["location"] ) {
    $location = $_POST["location"];
    header( "Location:$location" );
    exit();
    
    }

## Predifined Variable


**$GLOBALS**

Contains a reference to every variable which is currently available within the global scope of the script.

**$_SERVER**

This is an array containing information such as headers, paths, and script locations. The entries in this array are created by the web server. 

**$_GET**

An associative array of variables passed to the current script via the HTTP GET method.

**$_POST**

An associative array of variables passed to the current script via the HTTP POST method.

**$_FILES**

An associative array of items uploaded to the current script via the HTTP POST method.

**$_REQUEST**

An associative array consisting of the contents of $_GET, $_POST, and $_COOKIE.

**$_COOKIE**

An associative array of variables passed to the current script via HTTP cookies.


**$_SESSION**

An associative array containing session variables available to the current script.


**$_PHP_SELF**

A string containing PHP script file name in which it is called.


**$php_errormsg**

$php_errormsg is a variable containing the text of the last error message generated by PHP.

