

## 1) What is Java?

Java is the high-level, object-oriented, robust, secure programming language, platform-independent, high performance, Multithreaded, and portable programming language. 

## 6) How many types of memory areas are allocated by JVM?

**Class(Method) Area:** Class Area stores per-class structures such as the runtime ***constant pool, field, method data, and the code for methods.***

**Heap:** It is the runtime data area in which ***the memory is allocated to the objects***

**Stack:** Java Stack stores frames. ***It holds local variables and partial results, and plays a part in method invocation and return.*** 

## 7) What is JIT compiler?

Just-In-Time(JIT) compiler: It is used to improve the performance. ***JIT compiles parts of the bytecode that have similar functionality at the same time***, and hence reduces the amount of time needed for compilation. 

## 10) What gives Java its 'write once and run anywhere' nature?

The bytecode. Java compiler converts the Java programs into the class file (Byte Code) which is the intermediate language between source code and machine code. ***This bytecode is not platform specific and can be executed on any computer.***


## 12) Is Empty .java file name a valid source file name?

Yes, Java allows to save our java file by .java only, we need to compile it by javac .java and run by java classname Let's take a simple example:

    //save by .java only  
    class A{  
    public static void main(String args[]){  
    System.out.println("Hello java");  
    }  
    }  
    //compile by javac .java  
    //run by     java A  
    compile it by javac .java
    
    run it by java A

## 13) Is delete, next, main, exit or null keyword in java?

No.

## 14) If I don't provide any arguments on the command line, then what will the value stored in the String array passed into the main() method, empty or NULL?

It is empty, but not null.

## 15) What if I write static public void instead of public static void?

The program compiles and runs correctly because ***the order of specifiers doesn't matter in Java.***

## 16) What is the default value of the local variables?

The local variables are not initialized to any default value, ***neither primitives nor object references.***


## 18) What is the purpose of static methods and variables?

static is used in the case, where ***we need to define variables or methods which are common to all the objects of the class.***

*For example, In the class simulating the collection of the students in a college, the name of the college is the common attribute to all the students. Therefore, the college name will be defined as static.*

## 19) What are the advantages of Packages in Java?

Packages ***avoid the name clashes.***
The Package provides easier access control.
We can also have the hidden classes **that are not visible outside and used by the package.**
It is easier to locate the related classes.

## 20) What is the output of the following Java program?

    class Test   
    {  
        public static void main (String args[])   
        {  
            System.out.println(10 + 20 + "Javatpoint");   
            System.out.println("Javatpoint" + 10 + 20);  
        }  
    }  

The output of the above code will be

    30Javatpoint
    Javatpoint1020

**Explanation**

In the first case, 10 and 20 are treated as numbers and added to be 30. Now, their sum 30 is treated as the string and concatenated with the string Javatpoint. Therefore, the output will be 30Javatpoint.

In the second case, the string Javatpoint is concatenated with 10 to be the string Javatpoint10 which will then be concatenated with 20 to be Javatpoint1020.

## 21) What is the output of the following Java program?

    class Test   
    {  
        public static void main (String args[])   
        {  
            System.out.println(10 * 20 + "Javatpoint");   
            System.out.println("Javatpoint" + 10 * 20);  
        }  
    }  

The output of the above code will be

    200Javatpoint
    Javatpoint200

**Explanation**

In the first case, The numbers 10 and 20 will be multiplied first and then the result 200 is treated as the string and concatenated with the string Javatpoint to produce the output 200Javatpoint.

In the second case, The numbers 10 and 20 will be multiplied first to be 200 because the precedence of the multiplication is higher than addition. The result 200 will be treated as the string and concatenated with the string Javatpointto produce the output as Javatpoint200.

## 22) What is the output of the following Java program?

    class Test   
    {  
        public static void main (String args[])   
        {  
            for(int i=0; 0; i++)   
            {  
                System.out.println("Hello Javatpoint");  
            }  
        }  
    }  

**The above code will give the compile-time error because the for loop demands a boolean value in the second part and we are providing an integer value, i.e., 0**.


 
## 23) What is object-oriented paradigm?

It is a programming paradigm based on objects having data and methods defined in the class to which it belongs. 

## 26) What will be the initial value of an object reference which is defined as an instance variable?

All object references ***are initialized to null*** in Java.


## 27) What is the constructor?

The constructor can be defined as the special type of method that is used to initialize the state of an object. It is invoked when the class is instantiated.


## 28) How many types of constructors are used in Java?

**Default Constructor:** default constructor is the one which does not accept any value. 
**Parameterized Constructor:** The parameterized constructor is the one which can initialize the instance variables with the given values.

## 29) What is the purpose of a default constructor?

    class Student3{  
    int id;  
    String name;  
      
    void display(){System.out.println(id+" "+name);}  
      
    public static void main(String args[]){  
    Student3 s1=new Student3();  
    Student3 s2=new Student3();  
    s1.display();  
    s2.display();  
    }  
    }  


Output:

    0 null
    0 null

Explanation: In the above class, you are not creating any constructor, so compiler provides you a default constructor. Here 0 and null values are provided by default constructor.


## 30) Does constructor return any value?

Ans: yes, The constructor implicitly returns the current instance of the class (You can't use an explicit return type with the constructor).

## 31)Is constructor inherited?

No, The constructor is not inherited.

## 32) Can you make a constructor final?

No, the constructor can't be final.

## 33) Can we overload the constructors?

Yes, the constructors can be overloaded by changing the number of arguments accepted by the constructor or by changing the data type of the parameters. Consider the following example.

    class Test   
    {  
        int i;   
        public Test(int k)  
        {  
            i=k;  
        }  
        public Test(int k, int m)  
        {  
            System.out.println("Hi I am assigning the value max(k, m) to i");  
            if(k>m)  
            {  
                i=k;   
            }  
            else   
            {  
                i=m;  
            }  
        }  
    }  
    public class Main   
    {  
        public static void main (String args[])   
        {  
            Test test1 = new Test(10);  
            Test test2 = new Test(12, 15);  
            System.out.println(test1.i);  
            System.out.println(test2.i);  
        }  
    }  
      
In the above program, The constructor Test is overloaded with another constructor. In the first call to the constructor, The constructor with one argument is called, and i will be initialized with the value 10. However, In the second call to the constructor, The constructor with the 2 arguments is called, and i will be initialized with the value 15.


## 35) What are the differences between the constructors and methods?


**A constructor is used to initialize the state of an object.** 
**A constructor must not have a return type.**  
**The constructor is invoked implicitly.**  
**The constructor name must be same as the class name**.    



## 36) What is the output of the following Java program?

    public class Test   
    {  
        Test(int a, int b)  
        {  
            System.out.println("a = "+a+" b = "+b);  
        }  
        Test(int a, float b)  
        {  
            System.out.println("a = "+a+" b = "+b);  
        }  
        public static void main (String args[])  
        {  
            byte a = 10;   
            byte b = 15;  
            Test test = new Test(a,b);  
        }  
    }  

The output of the following program is:

    a = 10 b = 15



## 37) What is the output of the following Java program?

    class Test   
    {  
        int i;   
    }  
    public class Main   
    {  
        public static void main (String args[])   
        {  
            Test test = new Test();   
            System.out.println(test.i);  
        }  
    }  

**The output of the program is 0 because the variable i is initialized to 0 internally.** As we know that a default constructor is invoked implicitly if there is no constructor in the class, the variable i is initialized to 0 since there is no constructor in the class.

## 38) What is the output of the following Java program?

    class Test   
    {  
        int test_a, test_b;  
        Test(int a, int b)   
        {  
        test_a = a;   
        test_b = b;   
        }  
        public static void main (String args[])   
        {  
            Test test = new Test();   
            System.out.println(test.test_a+" "+test.test_b);  
        }  
    } 

 
**There is a compiler error in the program because there is a call to the default constructor in the main method which is not present in the class.** However, there is only one parameterized constructor in the class Test. Therefore, no default constructor is invoked by the constructor implicitly.


## 39) What is the static variable?

The static variable is used to refer to the common property of all objects (that is not unique for each object)

    //Program of static variable  
      
    class Student8{  
       int rollno;  
       String name;  
       static String college ="ITS";  
         
       Student8(int r,String n){  
       rollno = r;  
       name = n;  
       }  
     void display (){System.out.println(rollno+" "+name+" "+college);}  
      
     public static void main(String args[]){  
     Student8 s1 = new Student8(111,"Karan");  
     Student8 s2 = new Student8(222,"Aryan");  
       
     s1.display();  
     s2.display();  
     }  
    }  


Output:

    111 Karan ITS
           222 Aryan ITS


## 40) What is the static method?

***A static method belongs to the class*** rather than the object.
There is no need to create the object to call the static methods.
A static method can access and change the value of the static variable.


## 41) What are the restrictions that are applied to the Java static methods?


The static method ***can not use non-static data member or call the non-static method directly.***
this and super cannot be used in static context as they are non-static.

## 42) Why is the main method static?

Because the object is not required to call the static method. ***If we make the main method non-static, JVM will have to create its object first and then call main() method which will lead to the extra memory allocation.*** 

## 43) Can we override the static methods?

No, we can't override static methods.

## 44) What is the static block?

***Static block is used to initialize the static data member. It is executed before the main method, at the time of classloading.***

    class A2{  
      static{System.out.println("static block is invoked");}  
      public static void main(String args[]){  
       System.out.println("Hello main");  
      }  
    }  


Output: 

    static block is invoked
    Hello main



## 45) Can we execute a program without main() method?

Ans) Yes, one of the ways to execute the program without the main method is using static block. 

## 46) What if the static modifier is removed from the signature of the main method?

Program compiles. However, at runtime, It throws an error "NoSuchMethodError."


## 48) Can we make constructors static?

As we know that the static context (method, block, or variable) belongs to the class, not the object. ***Since Constructors are invoked only when the object is created, there is no sense to make the constructors static.*** However, if you try to do so, the compiler will show the compiler error.

## 49) Can we make the abstract methods static in Java?

In Java, if we make the abstract methods static, It will become the part of the class, and we can directly call it which is unnecessary. Calling an undefined method is completely useless therefore it is not allowed.

## 50) Can we declare the static variables and methods in an abstract class?

Yes, we can declare static variables and methods in an abstract method.

    abstract class Test  
    {  
        static int i = 102;  
        static void TestMethod()  
        {  
            System.out.println("hi !! I am good !!");  
        }  
    }  
    public class TestClass extends Test   
    {  
        public static void main (String args[])  
        {  
            Test.TestMethod();  
            System.out.println("i = "+Test.i);  
        }  
    }  

Output

    hi !! I am good !!
    i = 102


## 51) What is this keyword in java?

The this keyword ***is a reference variable that refers to the current object.*** 


## 53) Can we assign the reference to this variable?

***No, this cannot be assigned to any value because it always points to the current class object and this is the final reference in Java.*** However, if we try to do so, the compiler error will be shown. Consider the following example.

    public class Test  
    {  
        public Test()  
        {  
            this = null;   
            System.out.println("Test class constructor called");  
        }  
        public static void main (String args[])  
        {  
            Test t = new Test();  
        }  
    }  

Output

    Test.java:5: error: cannot assign a value to final variable this
            this = null; 
            ^
    1 error

## 54) Can this keyword be used to refer static members?

Yes, It is possible to use this keyword to refer static members because this is just a reference variable which refers to the current class object. 

    public class Test   
    {  
        static int i = 10;   
        public Test ()  
        {  
            System.out.println(this.i);      
        }  
        public static void main (String args[])  
        {  
            Test t = new Test();  
        }  
    }  

Output

10

## 55) How can constructor chaining be done using this keyword?

Constructor chaining enables us to call one constructor from another constructor of the class with respect to the current class object. 

    public class Employee  
    {  
        int id,age;   
        String name, address;  
        public Employee (int age)  
        {  
            this.age = age;  
        }  
        public Employee(int id, int age)  
        {  
            this(age);  
            this.id = id;  
        }  
        public Employee(int id, int age, String name, String address)  
        {  
            this(id, age);  
            this.name = name;   
            this.address = address;   
        }  
        public static void main (String args[])  
        {  
            Employee emp = new Employee(105, 22, "Vikas", "Delhi");  
            System.out.println("ID: "+emp.id+" Name:"+emp.name+" age:"+emp.age+" address: "+emp.address);  
        }  
          
    }  

Output

    ID: 105 Name:Vikas age:22 address: Delhi



## 57) What is the Inheritance?

Inheritance is a mechanism by which one object acquires all the properties and behavior of another object of another class.

## 58) Why is Inheritance used in Java?

**Inheritance provides code reusability.** The derived class does not need to redefine the method of base class unless it needs to provide the specific implementation of the method.

**Inheritance provides data hiding.** The base class can hide some data from the derived class by making it private.


## 59) Which class is the superclass for all the classes?

The object class is the superclass of all other classes in Java.

## 60) Why is multiple inheritance not supported in java?

***To reduce the complexity and simplify the language***, multiple inheritance is not supported in java. 

## 61) What is aggregation?

 Aggregation is best described as a has-a relationship. For example, The aggregate class Employee having various fields such as age, name, and salary also contains an object of Address class having various fields such as Address-Line 1, City, State, and pin-code. 

In other words, we can say that Employee (class) has an object of Address class. Consider the following example.

Address.java

    public class Address {  
    String city,state,country;  
      
    public Address(String city, String state, String country) {  
        this.city = city;  
        this.state = state;  
        this.country = country;  
    }  
      
    } 

 
Employee.java

    public class Emp {  
    int id;  
    String name;  
    Address address;  
      
    public Emp(int id, String name,Address address) {  
        this.id = id;  
        this.name = name;  
        this.address=address;  
    }  
      
    void display(){  
    System.out.println(id+" "+name);  
    System.out.println(address.city+" "+address.state+" "+address.country);  
    }  
      
    public static void main(String[] args) {  
    Address address1=new Address("gzb","UP","india");  
    Address address2=new Address("gno","UP","india");  
      
    Emp e=new Emp(111,"varun",address1);  
    Emp e2=new Emp(112,"arun",address2);  
          
    e.display();  
    e2.display();  
          
    }  
    }  

Output

    111 varun
    gzb UP india
    112 arun
    gno UP india

 

## 62) What is composition?

. ***When an object contains the other object, if the contained object cannot exist without the existence of container object, then it is called composition.*** 

Example: A class contains students. A student cannot exist without a class. There exists composition between class and students.

## 63) What is the difference between aggregation and composition?

Aggregation represents the weak relationship whereas composition represents the strong relationship. For example, the bike has an indicator (aggregation), but the bike has an engine (composition).

## 64) Why does Java not support pointers?

The pointer is a variable that refers to the memory address. They are not used in Java because they are unsafe(unsecured) and complex to understand.

## 65) What is super in java?

The super keyword in Java is a reference variable that is used to refer to the immediate parent class object. 

    class Animal{  
    Animal(){System.out.println("animal is created");}  
    }  
    class Dog extends Animal{  
    Dog(){  
    System.out.println("dog is created");  
    }  
    }  
    class TestSuper4{  
    public static void main(String args[]){  
    Dog d=new Dog();  
    }  
    }  


Output:

    animal is created
    dog is created


## 66) How can constructor chaining be done by using the super keyword?

    class Person  
    {  
        String name,address;   
        int age;  
        public Person(int age, String name, String address)  
        {  
            this.age = age;  
            this.name = name;  
            this.address = address;  
        }  
    }  
    class Employee extends Person   
    {  
        float salary;  
        public Employee(int age, String name, String address, float salary)  
        {  
            super(age,name,address);  
            this.salary = salary;  
        }  
    }  
    public class Test   
    {  
        public static void main (String args[])  
        {  
            Employee e = new Employee(22, "Mukesh", "Delhi", 90000);  
            System.out.println("Name: "+e.name+" Salary: "+e.salary+" Age: "+e.age+" Address: "+e.address);  
        }  
    }  

Output

    Name: Mukesh Salary: 90000.0 Age: 22 Address: Delhi

## 67) What are the main uses of the super keyword?

There are the following uses of super keyword.

super can be used to refer to the immediate parent class instance variable.
super can be used to invoke the immediate parent class method.
super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

## 68) What are the differences between this and super keyword?

The super keyword always points to the parent class contexts whereas this keyword always points to the current class context.

## 69) What is the output of the following Java program?

    class Person   
    {  
        public Person()   
        {  
            System.out.println("Person class constructor called");  
        }  
    }  
    public class Employee extends Person   
    {  
        public Employee()   
        {  
            System.out.println("Employee class constructor called");  
        }  
        public static void main (String args[])  
        {  
            Employee e = new Employee();  
        }  
    }  

Output

    Person class constructor called
    Employee class constructor called

Explanation

The super() **is implicitly invoked by the compiler if no super() or this() is included explicitly within the derived class constructor.** Therefore, in this case, The Person class constructor is called first and then the Employee class constructor is called.

## 70) Can you use this() and super() both in a constructor?

No, because this() and super() must be the first statement in the class constructor.

Example:

    public class Test{  
        Test()  
         {  
             super();   
             this();  
             System.out.println("Test class object is created");  
         }  
         public static void main(String []args){  
         Test t = new Test();  
         }  
    }  

Output:

    Test.java:5: error: call to this must be first statement in constructor

## 71)What is object cloning?

The object cloning is used to create the exact copy of an object. The clone() method of the Object class is used to clone an object. 

    protected Object clone() throws CloneNotSupportedException    
      


## 72) What is method overloading?

Method overloading is the polymorphism technique which allows us to create multiple methods with the same name but different signature. We can achieve method overloading in two ways.

Changing the number of arguments
Changing the return type
Method overloading increases **the readability of the program.** 
Method overloading is performed to figure out the program quickly.



## 73) Why is method overloading not possible by changing the return type in java?

In Java, ***method overloading is not possible by changing the return type of the program due to avoid the ambiguity.***

    class Adder{  
    static int add(int a,int b){return a+b;}  
    static double add(int a,int b){return a+b;}  
    }  
    class TestOverloading3{  
    public static void main(String[] args){  
    System.out.println(Adder.add(11,11));//ambiguity  
    }}  


Output:

    Compile Time Error: method add(int, int) is already defined in class Adder
    More Details.

## 74) Can we overload the methods by making them static?

**No, We cannot overload the methods** by just applying the static keyword to them(number of parameters and types are the same).

    public class Animal  
    {  
        void consume(int a)  
        {  
            System.out.println(a+" consumed!!");  
        }  
        static void consume(int a)  
        {  
            System.out.println("consumed static "+a);  
        }  
        public static void main (String args[])  
        {  
            Animal a = new Animal();  
            a.consume(10);  
            Animal.consume(20);  
        }  
    }    

Output

    Animal.java:7: error: method consume(int) is already defined in class Animal
        static void consume(int a)
                    ^
    Animal.java:15: error: non-static method consume(int) cannot be referenced from a static context
            Animal.consume(20);
                  ^
    2 errors

## 75) Can we overload the main() method?

Yes, we can have any number of main methods in a Java program by using method overloading.


## 76) What is method overloading with type promotion?

By Type promotion is method overloading, we mean that one data type can be promoted to another implicitly if no exact matching is found.

Java Method Overloading with Type Promotion
As displayed in the above diagram, the byte can be promoted to short, int, long, float or double. The short datatype can be promoted to int, long, float or double. The char datatype can be promoted to int, long, float or double and so on. Consider the following example.

class OverloadingCalculation1{  
  void sum(int a,long b){System.out.println(a+b);}  
  void sum(int a,int b,int c){System.out.println(a+b+c);}  
  
  public static void main(String args[]){  
  OverloadingCalculation1 obj=new OverloadingCalculation1();  
  obj.sum(20,20);//now second int literal will be promoted to long  
  obj.sum(20,20,20);  
  }  
}  
Test it Now
Output

40
60

## 77) What is the output of the following Java program?

    class OverloadingCalculation3{    
      void sum(int a,long b){System.out.println("a method invoked");}    
      void sum(long a,int b){System.out.println("b method invoked");}    
        
      public static void main(String args[]){    
      OverloadingCalculation3 obj=new OverloadingCalculation3();    
      obj.sum(20,20);//now ambiguity    
      }    
    } 

   
Output

    OverloadingCalculation3.java:7: error: reference to sum is ambiguous
    obj.sum(20,20);//now ambiguity  
         ^ 
          both method sum(int,long) in OverloadingCalculation3 
          and method sum(long,int) in OverloadingCalculation3 match
    1 error

Explanation

There are two methods defined with the same name, i.e., sum. The first method accepts the integer and long type whereas the second method accepts long and the integer type. 

## 78) What is method overriding:

Rules for Method overriding

The method must have **the same name as in the parent class.**
The method must have **the same signature as in the parent class.**
**Two classes must have an IS-A relationship between them.**


## 79) Can we override the static method?

No, you can't override the static method because they are the part of the class, not the object.

## 80) Why can we not override static method?

It is because the static method is the part of the class

## 81) Can we override the overloaded method?

Yes.


## 83) Can we override the private methods?

***No, we cannot override the private methods because the scope of private methods is limited*** to the class and we cannot access them outside of the class.

## 84) Can we change the scope of the overridden method in the subclass?

Yes, we can change the scope of the overridden method in the subclass. ***However, we must notice that we cannot decrease the accessibility of the method.*** 

The private can be changed to protected, public, or default.
The protected can be changed to public or default.
The default can be changed to public.
The public will always remain public.

## 85) Can we modify the throws clause of the superclass method while overriding it in the subclass?

Yes, we can modify the throws clause of ***the superclass method while overriding it in the subclass.*** However, there are some rules which are to be followed while overriding in case of exception handling.


## 86) What is the output of the following Java program?

    class Base  
    {  
        void method(int a)  
        {  
            System.out.println("Base class method called with integer a = "+a);  
        }  
           
        void method(double d)  
        {  
            System.out.println("Base class method called with double d ="+d);  
        }  
    }  
       
    class Derived extends Base  
    {  
        @Override  
        void method(double d)  
        {  
            System.out.println("Derived class method called with double d ="+d);  
        }  
    }  
       
    public class Main  
    {      
        public static void main(String[] args)  
        {  
            new Derived().method(10);  
        }  
    }  

Output

    Base class method called with integer a = 10

Explanation

The method() is overloaded in class Base whereas it is derived in class Derived with the double type as the parameter. In the method call, the integer is passed.

## 87) Can you have virtual functions in Java?

Yes, all functions in Java are virtual by default.

## 88) What is covariant return type?

Now, since java5, it is possible to override any method by changing the return type if the return type of the subclass overriding method is subclass type. It is known as covariant return type. The covariant return type specifies that the return type may vary in the same direction as the subclass.

    class A{  
    A get(){return this;}  
    }  
      
    class B1 extends A{  
    B1 get(){return this;}  
    void message(){System.out.println("welcome to covariant return type");}  
      
    public static void main(String args[]){  
    new B1().get().message();  
    }  
    }  


Output: 

    welcome to covariant return type


## 89) What is the output of the following Java program?

    class Base   
    {  
        public void baseMethod()  
        {  
            System.out.println("BaseMethod called ...");  
        }  
    }  
    class Derived extends Base   
    {  
        public void baseMethod()  
        {  
            System.out.println("Derived method called ...");  
        }  
    }  
    public class Test   
    {  
        public static void main (String args[])  
        {  
            Base b = new Derived();  
            b.baseMethod();  
        }  
    }  

Output

    Derived method called ...

## 90) What is the final variable?

In Java, the final variable is used to restrict the user from updating it. 

    class Bike9{  
     final int speedlimit=90;//final variable  
     void run(){  
      speedlimit=400;  
     }  
     public static void main(String args[]){  
     Bike9 obj=new  Bike9();  
     obj.run();  
     }  
    }//end of class  


Output:

    Compile Time Error


## 91) What is the final method?

If we change any method to a final method, we can't override it. 

    class Bike{  
      final void run(){System.out.println("running");}  
    }  
         
    class Honda extends Bike{  
       void run(){System.out.println("running safely with 100kmph");}  
         
       public static void main(String args[]){  
       Honda honda= new Honda();  
       honda.run();  
       }  
    }  


Output:

    Compile Time Error

## 92) What is the final class?

If we make any class final, we can't inherit it into any of the subclasses.

    final class Bike{}  
      
    class Honda1 extends Bike{  
      void run(){System.out.println("running safely with 100kmph");}  
        
      public static void main(String args[]){  
      Honda1 honda= new Honda1();  
      honda.run();  
      }  
    }  


Output:

    Compile Time Error


## 93) What is the final blank variable?

A final variable, not initialized at the time of declaration, is known as the final blank variable. We can't initialize the final blank variable directly.

    class Student{  
    int id;  
    String name;  
    final String PAN_CARD_NUMBER;  
    ...  
    } 

 


## 94) Can we initialize the final blank variable?

Yes, if it is not static, we can initialize it in the constructor. If it is static blank final variable, it can be initialized only in the static block. 

## 95) Can you declare the main method as final?

Yes, We can declare the main method as public static final void main(String[] args){}.

## 96) What is the output of the following Java program?

    class Main {  
     public static void main(String args[]){  
       final int i;  
       i = 20;  
       System.out.println(i);  
     }  
    }  

Output

    20

Explanation

Since i is the blank final variable. It can be initialized only once. We have initialized it to 20. Therefore, 20 will be printed.

## 97) What is the output of the following Java program?

    class Base   
    {  
        protected final void getInfo()  
        {  
            System.out.println("method of Base class");  
        }  
    }  
       
    public class Derived extends Base  
    {  
        protected final void getInfo()  
        {  
            System.out.println("method of Derived class");  
        }  
        public static void main(String[] args)  
        {  
            Base obj = new Base();  
            obj.getInfo();  
        }  
    }  

Output

    Derived.java:11: error: getInfo() in Derived cannot override getInfo() in Base
    protected final void getInfo()
                         ^
  overridden method is final
1 error
Explanation

The getDetails() method is final; therefore it can not be overridden in the subclass.

## 98) Can we declare a constructor as final?

The constructor can never be declared as final because it is **never inherited**. 

## 99) Can we declare an interface as final?

No, we cannot declare an interface as final ***because the interface must be implemented by some class to provide its definition.*** 

## 100) What is the difference between the final method and abstract method?

The main difference between the final method and abstract method is that the abstract method ***cannot be final as we need to override them*** in the subclass to give its definition.